#### Make
The make utility automatically determines which pieces of a large program need to be recompiled, and issues commands to recompile them.

##### Source Link: https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/index.html

#### Introduction to Makefiles
Makefile to tell `make` what to do. Most often, the makefile tells make how to compile and link a program.
The instructions are generally called `rule`.

1. ##### What a Rule Looks Like?
```
target ... : prerequisites ...
        recipe
        ...
        ...
```
 * A `target` is usually the name of a file that is generated by a program; examples of targets are executable or object files. A target can also be the name of an action to carry out, such as `clean`.
 * A `prerequisite` is a file that is used as input to create the target. A target often depends on several files.
 * A `recipe` is an action that `make` carries out. A recipe may have more than one command, either on the same line or each on its own line. <br>
  **Note**: *You need to put a `tab` character at the beginning of every recipe line! This is an obscurity that catches the unwary.* <br>
  Usually a recipe is in a rule with prerequisites and serves to create a target file if any of the prerequisites change. However, the rule that specifies a recipe for the target need not have prerequisites. <br>
  **For example**, the rule containing the delete command associated with the target `clean` does not have prerequisites.
 * A `rule`, then, explains how and when to remake certain files which are the targets of the particular rule. `make` carries out the recipe on the prerequisites to create or update the target. A `rule` can also explain *how and when to carry out an action*.

2. ##### Simple Makefile
Following `makefile` describes the way an executable file called `edit` depends on eight object files which, in turn, depend on eight C source and three header files.<br>
In this example, all the C files include `defs.h`, but only those defining editing commands include `command.h`, and only low level files that change the editor buffer include `buffer.h`.

```
# Makefile
edit : main.o kbd.o command.o display.o \
       insert.o search.o files.o utils.o
        cc -o edit main.o kbd.o command.o display.o \
                   insert.o search.o files.o utils.o

main.o : main.c defs.h
    cc -c main.c
kbd.o : kbd.c defs.h command.h
        cc -c kbd.c
command.o : command.c defs.h command.h
        cc -c command.c
display.o : display.c defs.h buffer.h
        cc -c display.c
insert.o : insert.c defs.h buffer.h
        cc -c insert.c
search.o : search.c defs.h buffer.h
        cc -c search.c
files.o : files.c defs.h buffer.h command.h
        cc -c files.c
utils.o : utils.c defs.h
        cc -c utils.c
clean :
        rm edit main.o kbd.o command.o display.o \
           insert.o search.o files.o utils.o

```
  * To use this makefile to create the executable file called edit, type:
```
make
```
  * To use this makefile to delete the executable file and all the object files from the directory, type:
```
make clean
```
  * In the example makefile, the targets include the executable file `edit`, and the object files `main.o` and `kbd.o`. The prerequisites are files such as `main.c` and `defs.h`. In fact, each `.o` file is both a `target` and a `prerequisite`. Recipes include `cc -c main.c` and `cc -c kbd.c`.
  * When a `target` is a `file`, it needs to be recompiled or relinked if any of its prerequisites change. In addition, any prerequisites that are themselves automatically generated should be updated first. In this example, `edit` depends on each of the eight object files; the object file `main.o` depends on the source file `main.c` and on the header file `defs.h`.
  * **Note**: `make` does not know anything about how the recipes work. It is up to you to supply recipes that will update the target file properly. All make does is execute the recipe you have specified when the target file needs to be updated.
  * **Phony Targets**: The target `clean` is not a file, but merely the name of an action. Since you normally do not want to carry out the actions in this rule, `clean` is not a prerequisite of any other rule. Consequently, `make` never does anything with it unless you tell it specifically. Note that *this rule not only is not a prerequisite, it also does not have any prerequisites, so the only purpose of the rule is to run the specified recipe.* Targets that do not refer to files but are just actions are called `Phony targets`.